# 2025-07-03 : TSC Agenda

## Agenda

* Welcome
* Approval of minutes from previous meeting (2025-06-05)
* [Nomination for new TSC voting member: Markku-Juhani Saarinen](https://github.com/pq-code-package/tsc/issues/176)
* [Project Lifecycle Stage Review](https://github.com/pq-code-package/tsc/issues/178)
    * PQCP is currently in Incubation stage
    * We need to decide if we want to move to the Growth Stage or stay in the Incubation Stage
* Updates from related communities:
    * [PQCA TAC](https://github.com/PQCA/TAC)
    * [Open Quantum Safe](https://github.com/open-quantum-safe)
* Review status of sub projects:
    * [mlkem-native](https://github.com/pq-code-package/mlkem-native)
    * [mldsa-native](https://github.com/pq-code-package/mldsa-native)
    * [mlkem-libjade](https://github.com/pq-code-package/mlkem-libjade)
    * [mlkem-rust-libcrux](https://github.com/pq-code-package/mlkem-rust-libcrux)
    * [slhdsa-c](https://github.com/pq-code-package/slhdsa-c)
* Discussion (if not covered previously)
    * Issues proposed for closure (Matthias commented to close around 2025-07-03):
        * [Add project dashboard](https://github.com/pq-code-package/tsc/issues/58)
        * [ML-KEM Test Vectors](https://github.com/pq-code-package/tsc/issues/29)
        * [Agree and document contribution guidelines & PR process](https://github.com/pq-code-package/tsc/issues/22)
        * [Decide how project results should be consumed & communicate this](https://github.com/pq-code-package/tsc/issues/15)
        * [OpenSSF scorecard for member subprojects](https://github.com/pq-code-package/tsc/issues/14)
        * [Adopt a code of conduct](https://github.com/pq-code-package/tsc/issues/9)
        * [Develop a security policy](https://github.com/pq-code-package/tsc/issues/8)
    * [Other Open TSC issues](https://github.com/orgs/pq-code-package/projects/4/views/1)
        * Remaining open issues for review:
            * [Project Documentation Standards](https://github.com/pq-code-package/tsc/issues/151)
            * [Automatically set TSC voting members as reviewers for agenda/minutes](https://github.com/pq-code-package/tsc/issues/62)
            * [Add CONTRIBUTING.md to all repos](https://github.com/pq-code-package/tsc/issues/54)
            * [Determine any cross-implementation API requirements](https://github.com/pq-code-package/tsc/issues/4)
            * [Adopt a definition of assurance levels](https://github.com/pq-code-package/tsc/issues/3)
    * **Next meeting: 2025-08-07 13:00 UTC**
* Any other business

## Action Items Review from 2025-06-05

### Outstanding Action Items

* [ ] Everyone: Look at https://insights.linuxfoundation.org/
* [ ] Everyone: Propose blog posts for the PQCA website
